TODO.md, before:

# TODO
1. Update documentation
3. Create functions for common code in MHyper algorithm (points/classes in space)
4. Change HB analytics to account for combined blocks when getting size, misclassified, etc.

# NOTES
5. DataSetup.java: make saves the same as DV 1.0 (file extension)
11. abstract LDFRule drawings functions






ProcessBuilder cv = new ProcessBuilder("C:\\Users\\Administrator\\AppData\\Local\\Programs\\Python\\Python312\\python.exe",
"source\\Python\\code_and_pyinstaller_spec\\kFoldCrossValidation.py",
fileName,
String.valueOf(DV.kFolds));











/**
* Creates angles for Dynamic Scaffold Coordinates
* @param datapoint datapoint to create angles for
* @param cur_angles angles from GLC-L visualization
* @return DSC angles combined with GLC-L angles
*/
private int[] generateDSCAngles(double[] datapoint, double[] cur_angles)
{
int[] angles = new int[(int) Math.ceil(datapoint.length / 2.0)];

        // get angles
        for (int i = 0, cnt = 0; i < datapoint.length; i++, cnt++)
        {
            double value1 = datapoint[i];
            double value2;

            if (++i != datapoint.length)
                value2 = datapoint[i];
            else
                value2 = value1;

            if (value2 == 0)
                angles[cnt] = 90;
            else if (value1 == 0)
                angles[cnt] = 0;
            else
                angles[cnt] = (int) Math.round(Math.toDegrees(Math.atan(value1 / value2)));

            angles[cnt] += (int) cur_angles[cnt];
        }

        return angles;
    }


    /**
     * Updates the coordinates for each datapoint in a DataObject
     * @param angles weights for each value in a datapoint from GLC-L visualization
     * @return highest point in DataObject
     */
    public double updateCoordinatesDSC(double[] angles)
    {
        // save the highest point
        double highest = Double.MIN_VALUE;

        // generate coordinates for every datapoint
        for (int i = 0; i < data.length; i++)
        {
            double[] datapoint;

            // copy datapoint
            // duplicate last attribute if uneven
            if (i != data.length - 2 || data[i].length % 2 == 0)
                datapoint = data[i];
            else
            {
                datapoint = new double[data[i].length+1];
                System.arraycopy(data[i], 0, datapoint, 0, data[i].length);
                datapoint[data[i].length] = data[i][data[i].length-1];
            }

            // generate coordinates
            coordinates[i] = generateCoordinatesDSC(datapoint, generateDSCAngles(datapoint, angles));

            // check for new highest
            if (coordinates[i][coordinates[i].length-1][0] > highest)
                highest = coordinates[i][coordinates[i].length-1][1];
            else if (coordinates[i][coordinates[i].length-1][1] > highest)
                highest = coordinates[i][coordinates[i].length-1][1];
        }

        // get vertical scaling
        double vertical_scale = 0.4;

        if (DV.classNumber == 1)
            vertical_scale *= 2;

        // only save the highest if greater than field length * vertical_scale
        if (highest < DV.fieldLength * vertical_scale)
            highest = 1;
        else
            highest = (highest + 0.1) / (DV.fieldLength * vertical_scale);

        if (highest > DV.fieldLength)
            DV.domainArea = new double[]{ -highest, highest };

        return highest;
    }


    /**
     * Generates coordinates for a datapoint
     * @param dataPoint datapoint in DataObject
     * @param angles weights for each value
     * @return coordinates for datapoint
     */
    private double[][] generateCoordinatesDSC(double[] dataPoint, int[] angles)
    {
        // output points
        double[][] xyPoints = new double[(int)Math.ceil(dataPoint.length / 2.0)][2];

        // get xyPoints
        xyPoints[0] = getXYPointDSC(dataPoint[0], dataPoint[1], angles[0]);

        for (int i = 2, cnt = 1; i < dataPoint.length; i++, cnt++)
        {
            if (i + 1 != dataPoint.length)
                xyPoints[cnt] = getXYPointDSC(dataPoint[i], dataPoint[++i], angles[cnt]);
            else
                xyPoints[cnt] = getXYPointDSC(dataPoint[i], dataPoint[i], angles[cnt]);

            // add previous points to current points
            xyPoints[cnt][0] += xyPoints[cnt-1][0];
            xyPoints[cnt][1] += xyPoints[cnt-1][1];
        }

        return xyPoints;
    }


    /**
     * Gets coordinates for two given values
     * @param value1 value to find coordinates for
     * @param value2 value to find coordinates for
     * @param angle weight of value
     * @return coordinates for value
     */
    private double[] getXYPointDSC(double value1, double value2, int angle)
    {
        double[] xyPoint = new double[2];

        double value = Math.sqrt(Math.pow(value1, 2) + Math.pow(value2, 2));

        // reverse direction if angle is greater than 90 degrees
        // calculate x
        if (angle > 90)
        {
            angle = 180 - angle;
            xyPoint[0] = -(Math.cos(Math.toRadians(angle)) * value);
        }
        else if (angle < 0)
        {
            angle = 180 + angle;
            xyPoint[0] = -(Math.cos(Math.toRadians(angle)) * value);
        }
        else
            xyPoint[0] = (Math.cos(Math.toRadians(angle))) * value;

        // calculate y
        xyPoint[1] = Math.sin(Math.toRadians(angle)) * value;

        return xyPoint;
    }

Commit message:

Working version of PC_HB for disjunctive blocks. still needing cleaned up

TODO.md, after:

# TODO
1. Update documentation
3. Create functions for common code in MHyper algorithm (points/classes in space)
4. Change HB analytics to account for combined blocks when getting size, misclassified, etc.

# TODO: Post Lincoln Grad
1. Implement splitting data in train/test.
2. Fix visualization of disjunctive blocks - Need to go through the XY series and add in the values from interval 0 if missing some X.
   example: outlines.get(1) will only have a value in its series for the disjunction. it should return the the main block after and before to be plotted. 
3. Implement Hyper-Block statistics. 
4. 

# NOTES
5. DataSetup.java: make saves the same as DV 1.0 (file extension)
11. abstract LDFRule drawings functions






ProcessBuilder cv = new ProcessBuilder("C:\\Users\\Administrator\\AppData\\Local\\Programs\\Python\\Python312\\python.exe",
"source\\Python\\code_and_pyinstaller_spec\\kFoldCrossValidation.py",
fileName,
String.valueOf(DV.kFolds));











/**
* Creates angles for Dynamic Scaffold Coordinates
* @param datapoint datapoint to create angles for
* @param cur_angles angles from GLC-L visualization
* @return DSC angles combined with GLC-L angles
*/
private int[] generateDSCAngles(double[] datapoint, double[] cur_angles)
{
int[] angles = new int[(int) Math.ceil(datapoint.length / 2.0)];

        // get angles
        for (int i = 0, cnt = 0; i < datapoint.length; i++, cnt++)
        {
            double value1 = datapoint[i];
            double value2;

            if (++i != datapoint.length)
                value2 = datapoint[i];
            else
                value2 = value1;

            if (value2 == 0)
                angles[cnt] = 90;
            else if (value1 == 0)
                angles[cnt] = 0;
            else
                angles[cnt] = (int) Math.round(Math.toDegrees(Math.atan(value1 / value2)));

            angles[cnt] += (int) cur_angles[cnt];
        }

        return angles;
    }


    /**
     * Updates the coordinates for each datapoint in a DataObject
     * @param angles weights for each value in a datapoint from GLC-L visualization
     * @return highest point in DataObject
     */
    public double updateCoordinatesDSC(double[] angles)
    {
        // save the highest point
        double highest = Double.MIN_VALUE;

        // generate coordinates for every datapoint
        for (int i = 0; i < data.length; i++)
        {
            double[] datapoint;

            // copy datapoint
            // duplicate last attribute if uneven
            if (i != data.length - 2 || data[i].length % 2 == 0)
                datapoint = data[i];
            else
            {
                datapoint = new double[data[i].length+1];
                System.arraycopy(data[i], 0, datapoint, 0, data[i].length);
                datapoint[data[i].length] = data[i][data[i].length-1];
            }

            // generate coordinates
            coordinates[i] = generateCoordinatesDSC(datapoint, generateDSCAngles(datapoint, angles));

            // check for new highest
            if (coordinates[i][coordinates[i].length-1][0] > highest)
                highest = coordinates[i][coordinates[i].length-1][1];
            else if (coordinates[i][coordinates[i].length-1][1] > highest)
                highest = coordinates[i][coordinates[i].length-1][1];
        }

        // get vertical scaling
        double vertical_scale = 0.4;

        if (DV.classNumber == 1)
            vertical_scale *= 2;

        // only save the highest if greater than field length * vertical_scale
        if (highest < DV.fieldLength * vertical_scale)
            highest = 1;
        else
            highest = (highest + 0.1) / (DV.fieldLength * vertical_scale);

        if (highest > DV.fieldLength)
            DV.domainArea = new double[]{ -highest, highest };

        return highest;
    }


    /**
     * Generates coordinates for a datapoint
     * @param dataPoint datapoint in DataObject
     * @param angles weights for each value
     * @return coordinates for datapoint
     */
    private double[][] generateCoordinatesDSC(double[] dataPoint, int[] angles)
    {
        // output points
        double[][] xyPoints = new double[(int)Math.ceil(dataPoint.length / 2.0)][2];

        // get xyPoints
        xyPoints[0] = getXYPointDSC(dataPoint[0], dataPoint[1], angles[0]);

        for (int i = 2, cnt = 1; i < dataPoint.length; i++, cnt++)
        {
            if (i + 1 != dataPoint.length)
                xyPoints[cnt] = getXYPointDSC(dataPoint[i], dataPoint[++i], angles[cnt]);
            else
                xyPoints[cnt] = getXYPointDSC(dataPoint[i], dataPoint[i], angles[cnt]);

            // add previous points to current points
            xyPoints[cnt][0] += xyPoints[cnt-1][0];
            xyPoints[cnt][1] += xyPoints[cnt-1][1];
        }

        return xyPoints;
    }


    /**
     * Gets coordinates for two given values
     * @param value1 value to find coordinates for
     * @param value2 value to find coordinates for
     * @param angle weight of value
     * @return coordinates for value
     */
    private double[] getXYPointDSC(double value1, double value2, int angle)
    {
        double[] xyPoint = new double[2];

        double value = Math.sqrt(Math.pow(value1, 2) + Math.pow(value2, 2));

        // reverse direction if angle is greater than 90 degrees
        // calculate x
        if (angle > 90)
        {
            angle = 180 - angle;
            xyPoint[0] = -(Math.cos(Math.toRadians(angle)) * value);
        }
        else if (angle < 0)
        {
            angle = 180 + angle;
            xyPoint[0] = -(Math.cos(Math.toRadians(angle)) * value);
        }
        else
            xyPoint[0] = (Math.cos(Math.toRadians(angle))) * value;

        // calculate y
        xyPoint[1] = Math.sin(Math.toRadians(angle)) * value;

        return xyPoint;
    }
